$Id: README-WIN32,v 1.1.1.1 2005/01/13 18:45:15 mcr Exp $

INTRODUCTION

The Windows-32 version of ike-scan uses Cygwin to provide Posix compatibility.

You can run ike-scan in two different ways on a Windows-32 system:

a) Use the precompiled Windows-32 binary version of ike-scan.
This is the easiest way to get ike-scan running on a Windows-32 system.
The binary package includes the Cygwin DLL.
For the binary package, you just need to extract the contents of the zip
file into an empty directory and run IKE-SCAN.EXE from this directory.  There
are no registry settings, ini files, or start menu items so uninstalling just
involves removing the directory that you installed ike-scan in.

b) Compile ike-scan from source using the Cygwin system.
To do this, you'll need to download the Cygwin Unix environment from
http://www.cygwin.com/.  In addition to the default installation, you'll need
GCC and Make.  Once Cygwin is installed, you can compile ike-scan in the
normal way: ./configure, make, make install.

The Windows-32 version of ike-scan is a command-line tool.  It does not
run as a Windows GUI application.  You should run it from a DOS box (e.g.
cmd.exe on NT,2000 and XP; command.exe on 9x).

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UNIX AND WINDOWS VERSIONS

The main difference between the Unix and Windows versions of ike-scan is
that the default directory for the backoff patterns file on Windows is the
directory where the ike-scan.exe executable resides.  It is possible to
specify the location of the patterns file on both Windows and Unix systems
with the --patterns option.

SUPPORTED PLATFORMS

Currently, the Windows-32 version of ike-scan is known to run on the following
platforms:

Windows NT Server 3.51
Windows 98 SE
Windows NT Workstation 4.0 SP6a
Windows 2000 Server SP1
Windows XP Professional SP1

I suspect that it will also run on any Intel-based Windows-32 platform.  I
doubt that it will run on Windows 3.1 even with win32s.
Please let me know if you know of a Win-32 system that it doesn't run on.

KNOWN ISSUES

a) Windows 2000 Server runs the "IPSEC Policy agent" service which listens on
   UDP port 500.  If this service is running, it will prevent ike-scan from
   binding to UDP port 500 which is its default source port.

   You can either stop the IPSEC Policy agent service or bind ike-scan to a
   different source port.  Note that using a source port other than 500 for
   ike-scan may not work with all IKE hosts because some only answer requests
   from source port 500.
